---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post: 1"
date:   2020-09-11 12:00:41 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---


# Blog 1:  Setting up new laptops to join Azure AD

I currently work at a public charter school as an IT Coordinator. One of the tasks I had to complete this week was setting up newly purchased laptops to join our organizations cloud network. We currently have Office 365 which allows us to have access to Azure Active Directory.

### What is Azure Active Directory?

Azure Active Directory is a cloud-based Identity management service that handles access for users within the network. It provides companies with a means to manage user login access to all supported applications running on azure. In an example scenario, we have a company that has over 1000+ employees. This company uses multiple serveries that require login ID’s and passwords for each service. The IT administrator now must manage over 3000 user logins. At this point, the IT administrator and employee are overwhelmed. That’s where Azure AD comes in. Azure AD helps companies by providing users with a Single-Sign-On method that allows the user to have access to all cloud and or on-premise services with a single login.

What I did. (Assuming that Azure AD is already setup and integrated into your organization)
First thing you need is to assign a user within the tenant a license. You can do this by following these steps:

-	Navigate to Office 365 home page.
-	Click on Active Directory from the dashboard.
-	Select the correct Tenant (organizational unit)
-	Click on Users.
-	Locate the User you want to assign the license to.
-	Click on the User and go into their profile.
-	Select the Licensing tab and assign an available license to that user.
-	Select the Apps tab and enable access to apps for that user. 

Second thing you need is a new device to setup. We ordered 15 new HP Laptops -15t that had Windows 10 installed on them. Most new laptops come preconfigured to start the “Out of Box Experience” setup. Keep in mind that Azure AD is only compatible for Windows 10 Pro edition or higher (that means if you have Windows 10 Home edition, you will not be able to follow these steps). 
The OOBE part of the new laptop installation is where we need to go to join this device to the network. After you enter in language and region settings, you should be prompted to join an organization. You will need to use the loginID and password shown in the Office 365 homepage where the users are listed. The device is now connected to your organization's network. 

Alternatively, you can join a laptop that is already setup with windows to the organization’s network by following these steps:

-	Right click the start button.
-	Click on Settings and navigate to Accounts.
-	Click on Access work or school.
-	Click the “Connect” button.
-	A “Set up a work or school account” window should pop up.
-	Under the Alternative Actions: portion of the window, select the “join this device to Azure Active Directory” option.
-	At this point, you should be prompted to login. Use the login credentials located at the 365 home page under the users tab.
-	You should get a warning asking you to verify that you want to connect to this organization. Press Join. Now you’re connected to your organization.

It was a learning experience for me trying to set up these laptops. I had no experience with Azure AD. The laptops we purchased were the wrong operating system. When we purchased the laptops, we chose the Windows 10 Home Edition because it was free. Now I know to chose Windows 10 Pro if I want to join a Azure AD.



