---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post: 0"
date:   2020-09-04 12:03:41 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---


# Setting up a Raspberry Pi and Connecting Remotely with SSH.

This is how you set up a Raspberry Pi for the first time and how you can connect to the Raspberry Pi using Secure Shell protocol.

What is a Raspberry Pi?
A raspberry pi is a small computer about the size of a wallet or credit card. It is extremely cost efficient as it has all the necessary components to support an operating system. You can find prices as low as $35.

What is Secure Shell?
Secure Shell is a software/package that allows users to safely transfer files over insecure networks. SSH encrypts the data that is being sent over the internet (ethernet) between machines. If you were an outside party, you can see if the data is being transferred, how much data it contains, how often it's being sent but you can't see the content of the data at all. You essentially have a private channel of communication with the both machines. When connecting two machines over SSH, you must first open a TCP connection between the two. 

First, you would need to purchase a Raspberry Pi. I purchased a CanaKit Raspberry Pi 4 - 4GB starter kit from CanaKit on Amazon for $99. You can find it here --> (https://www.amazon.com/CanaKit-Raspberry-4GB-Starter-Kit/dp/B07V5JTMV9)
It came with:
- Raspberry Pi 4
- Samsung Evo+ 32GB Micro SD Card
- Case (mini tower)
- Power Supply (on/off switch)
- Micro HDMI to HDMI cable 
- Heat Sinks for components
Its running a 64-bit quad core processor @ 1.5 Ghz !!

If you purchased this product you can follow the instructs located here [Manual / instructions] --> (https://www.canakit.com/Media/CanaKit-Raspberry-Pi-Quick-Start-Guide-4.0.pdf)
When you first boot the Raspberry Pi, you should be prompted to install an RB Operating System. Go ahead and select the Full OS version and click install. Once you finish installing the OS, it should allow you to boot into your computer. Once inside, you should be prompted again to finish some final steps to ensure your device is up and running. It will ask you for your country of origin, language, time zone, keyboard, password, network, software update. 

AFter getting your Raspberry Pi setup, you need to enable SSH on this operating system. To do that you need to navigate to RB Pi settings Start Button > Preferences > Raspberry Pi Configuration > Interfaces > Enable SSH
It should prompt you to reboot your system. 

After booting up your system again, you will need to locate the IP address of the RB Pi. To do this you will need to open terminal. You can see a terminal icon right next to the start button. In terminal, enter this command:
'hostname -I'. This should provide you with your IP address. Save it because your going to need to enter this on the SSH client to make a connection. 

Now go to your main computer and install this openSSH client called PuTTy. You can download it here. -->  https://www.putty.org/

Start PuTTy on your main computer. A small window should appear with options to enter configurations. 
- Locate the section Host Name (or IP address). This is where you enter your Raspberry Pi’s IP address. 
- Locate the section Port. You will need to use port 22 which is responsible for Secure Shell (SSH),[10] secure logins, file transfers (scp, sftp) and port forwarding.
- Locate the section Connection type. Select SSH.

Now you are ready to connect to your RB Pi machine through SSH. Open the connection between the devices. You should be prompted to accept connection with the host. You will be asked to enter your RB Pi’s username and password. Once entered, you have remote access to your Raspberry Pi device over SSH using the SSH client PuTTy. 

Learning how to boot up a Raspberry Pi and connect to it using SSH was really enlightening. I can now control my Raspberry Pi remotely and execute console programs, transfer files, 
