---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post: 5"
date:   2020-10-09 12:00:41 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

The presentation I did last week for my class was a success. I think we met all the requirmeents set forth by our professor. 
I wrote a bit of text that I used for my part of the presentation.

a.	First of all, I’m going to introduce myself and my team members. 
i.	My name is Kenny Vo and my team members are Chris Der, Darvy Coreas, Namtae Chanachit, and Samuel Vardanyan.
ii.	For our presentation, we will be covering WEP and WPA attacks. 
iii.	I will be doing a brief introduction into our presentation, Chris will be covering History, Darvy is covering Examples of attacks, Namtae will be going over how it’s done and also covering a demo. Samuel will cover how to prevent it.
iv.	I’ll start off by briefly introducing WEP and WPA.
b.	What is IEEE 802
i.	In order to understand where WEP and WPA came from, we must first learn a little about the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standard also known as IEEE 802.
ii.	IEEE 802 stands for Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineer which is a family of standards that govern how devices interact at the bottom 2 layers of the OSI model. 
iii.	The IEEE 802 is a family of standards that govern the lower two layers of the OSI (Open Systems Interconnection).
iv.	----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
c.	What is WEP
i.	Security Algorithm for IEEE 802.11 Wireless networks that was at one point, the most widely used security method for networks.
ii.	 Released as a part of the original 802.11 standard which was ratified in 1997. 
iii.	It is known for its 64 bit (40-bit key | 5 character = 1 asci = 8 bits) or 128 bit modes (104-bit key | 13 characters = 1 asci = 8 bits). 
iv.	----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
d.	What is WPA 
i.	Wi-Fi Protected Access is a security protocol that provides wireless networks with security. The successor to WEP, it was created with the intention to fix all the weaknesses in WEP security algorithm. It was  announced in 2003 by the WIFI Alliance that WEP will be superseded by WPA. 
 

