---
layout: post
title:  "Spring 2021: Blog Post: 10"
date:   2021-05-7 12:00:41 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
### IBM and Microprocessors
This week I decided to write about some technology news. There is a new competitor in the micro processing industry that made some headline this past week. International Business Machines Corporation also known as IBM came out with a new microprocessor that has other competitors beat. In the industry of microprocessors, the smaller the microprocessor the better the product. The industry uses the measurement nm for nanometre as a unit of measurement for the size of their processor. It ultimately equates to higher density of transistors, increase speed and lower power consumption which in turn increase overall computing output efficiency. The most recent processor size that has been introduced into the market is the 5nm microprocessor which came from AMD and Apple at the size of 7nm and 5nm. The IBM microprocessor size of 2nm is a groundbreaking achievement for the industry as many of the previous chips that came out are 3-7 times larger in size. IBM claimed to have 45% improvement in performance and 75% less energy consumption over its 7nm predecessor models that have been available commercially. This is considered a breakthrough because of Moore’s law. Moore’s law states that in a dense integrated circuit that the number of transistors double about every two years. This is an observation and projection of what historical data trends show. It is a law that was based on the empirical relationship between gains from experience in production rather than the law of physics. It has been increasingly more difficult to double the amount of power microprocessors with the limitations of the speed of light and the number of transistors can be cramped into smaller hardware. As we all know it’s impossible for anything to accelerate faster than the speed of light so the way we compute information with the use of light and limited. Although the its very hard to exceed the limitations of the speed of light when it comes to transmitting data by use of photons, the future of microprocessors still has much potential to grow as research is diving into the world of quantum computing. Quantum physics is a area of science that focuses on the fundamental theories of physics that describes how the properties

